Minimum Viable Product

1. Objective of the MVP
The MVP aims to deliver the essential features required to:
Collect and Display corruption case data.
Ensure Data Integrity through basic verification processes.
Provide User Access via a functional web interface.
Establish Security Measures to protect data and user privacy.
This approach allows the project team to validate key assumptions, assess user engagement, and identify areas for improvement with minimal resource investment.

2. MVP Scope and Features
2.1. Core Functionalities
Data Collection and Ingestion


Manual Data Entry Interface: Allow administrators or authorized partners to submit corruption cases manually.
Basic API Integration: Enable data ingestion from a limited number of external sources (e.g., one or two partner APIs).
Data Verification


Basic Verification Module: Implement automated checks for data consistency and completeness.
Manual Review Process: Allow designated data analysts to review and approve submissions.
Data Storage


Primary Database Setup: Utilize a relational database to store structured corruption case data.
Searchable Index: Implement a simple search functionality using a search engine like Elasticsearch for efficient data retrieval.
User Interface


Responsive Web Application: Develop a user-friendly interface accessible via desktop and mobile devices.
Search and Filter Functionality: Allow users to search for corruption cases using basic filters (e.g., country, year).
Case Details Page: Provide detailed information for each corruption case, including metadata.
Security Measures


User Authentication: Implement secure login for administrators and data contributors.
Data Encryption: Ensure data is encrypted in transit (TLS/SSL) and at rest.
Basic Privacy Controls: Protect sensitive information and ensure user data privacy.
Reporting and Analytics


Basic Analytics Dashboard: Monitor key metrics such as the number of cases, user visits, and data submissions.
2.2. Out of MVP Scope
Advanced Data Visualization: Interactive charts, maps, and timelines.
Whistleblower Anonymous Reporting: Secure and anonymous channels for data submission.
Comprehensive API Integrations: Support for multiple external data sources.
Advanced Security Features: Multi-factor authentication, intrusion detection systems.
Localization and Internationalization: Support for multiple languages.
Extensive User Roles and Permissions: Granular access control beyond basic roles.

3. Technology Stack for MVP
Building upon the previously outlined architecture, the MVP will utilize a streamlined version of the suggested technologies to ensure rapid development and deployment.
3.1. Frontend
Framework: React.js
State Management: Redux
Styling: Material-UI
Routing: React Router
3.2. Backend
Framework: Node.js with Express.js
API Design: RESTful APIs
Authentication: JSON Web Tokens (JWT) via libraries like Passport.js or Auth0
Data Validation: Joi or similar packages
3.3. Database
Relational Database: PostgreSQL
Search Engine: Elasticsearch (optional for MVP; alternatively, PostgreSQL’s full-text search can be leveraged)
3.4. Data Verification
Automated Scripts: Python scripts for automated data checks
Manual Review Interface: Simple admin dashboard for data analysts
3.5. DevOps and Infrastructure
Cloud Provider: AWS (leveraging services like EC2, RDS for PostgreSQL)
Containerization: Docker (optional for MVP; consider direct deployment for simplicity)
CI/CD: GitHub Actions for automated testing and deployment
Version Control: Git with GitHub
3.6. Security
Encryption: TLS/SSL for data in transit; AES-256 for data at rest
Authentication Service: Passport.js or Auth0
Environment Variables Management: dotenv or AWS Secrets Manager
3.7. Analytics
Basic Analytics: Google Analytics for tracking user interactions
Server Monitoring: AWS CloudWatch or similar services

4. Architectural Overview for MVP
While the full architecture encompasses multiple layers and components, the MVP will focus on the following simplified structure:
4.1. Simplified System Architecture

graph TD
    subgraph Data Collection
        A[Manual Data Entry] --> B(Backend API)
        C[Partner API] --> B
    end

    subgraph Data Verification
        B --> D[Automated Checks]
        D --> E[Manual Review]
        E --> F[Database]
    end

    subgraph Data Storage
        F[PostgreSQL Database] --> G[Backend Services]
    end

    subgraph User Interface
        H[Web Application] --> G
    end

    subgraph Security
        I[Authentication] --> G
        J[Encryption] --> F
    end

    subgraph Analytics
        K[Google Analytics] --> H
    end


4.2. Description
Data Collection:


Data is ingested via manual entries from administrators or through APIs from one or two partner sources.
Data Verification:


Automated scripts perform initial data validation.
Designated data analysts manually review and approve data before it is stored.
Data Storage:


Verified data is stored in a PostgreSQL database, ensuring structured and reliable storage.
Backend Services:


Node.js with Express.js handles API requests, serves data to the frontend, and manages business logic.
User Interface:


A React.js-based web application allows users to search, filter, and view corruption cases.
Security:


Implement authentication using JWT to secure admin and data contributor access.
Ensure all data transmissions are encrypted using TLS/SSL, and sensitive data in the database is encrypted at rest.
Analytics:


Integrate Google Analytics to monitor user interactions and platform usage.
